Okay, so we've looked at declaring
variables and using them in calculations
we've then looked at using string
interpolation to print out more
descriptive messages with our variables.
Now we've got a couple of things to
cover in this video and I'll start with
why I've used var for some of the
variables and vowel for others and I've
actually got an admission to make
that's this code is at the moment I
should have used Val everywhere but then
I wouldn't have any familiar example
code to use for this video all right so
what does this Val and vea mean and
what's the difference between the two
well Val stands for value and VARs short
for variable now we can get a clue to
what the difference is by looking at the
third warning tick that Android studio
is showing in the right margin so we
come down here and just hover over that
you can see that says variant variable
is never modified and can be declared
immutable using val. Now immutable here
means that it can't be changed which
means that once it's been given a value
that value can't change now that may
seem like an odd thing to want to do to
a variable after all they're called
variables which implies that their
values will change and that's true it's
often necessary to assign different
values to a variable in that case that
have to be declared using var instead of
rather than Val very often though you'll
assign a value to a variable and never
change it now that might sound
surprising but it's extremely common
you'll see examples of that when we look
at functions and classes later in this
section of the course but it's an
example of this look at the declaration
here on line 5 for what the Tim variable
now I could probably imagine an extreme
set of circumstances that would result
in me changing my name and going on the
run and going into hiding it's possible
perhaps but I think I can safely
guarantee that my name will remain
timbered chaka and won't change in the
time I'm recording these videos at least
if ever so the point is that there's
very little point storing my name in a
VAR variable once it's stored it's not
going to change all right so that's fair
enough but what's the big deal after all
we just have to avoid changing it and
everything's fine right now this bits
going to be a little bit contrived and
we haven't got a lot of
code here so it's going to be obvious
where I'm about to go wrong but remember
that a real program will have hundreds
or thousands of lines of code split over
loads of different files and classes so
what I'm going to do here is start by
adding another variable Jim and they're
going to do that above Tim on line five
so var Jim ji M :
string all right so now that we've done
that I'm going to go down to the code
right down the bottom here we're going
to keep Jim a value so right after the
last print one we're going to put Tim
equals james t kirk now when I run the
program you'll see that it says my name
is james t kirk so I'm no longer timba
jakka I've become the captain of the
enterprise instead the rest have said
this is a bit contrived but errors like
this are surprisingly easy to make when
you're dealing with hundreds of
variables in thousands of lines of
programming code now we can prevent bugs
like that from creeping in by declaring
variables as vowel when we don't expect
them to change so when I go up here into
line 6 and change the var to vowel and
it's grown and have a look at the code
that will no longer compile or run we're
actually getting a warning here and
error rather saying Val cannot be reassigned
so it's an error showing that when I
incorrectly try to assign a new value to
Tim at the end of the code so the
köppen compiler is catching the bug for
us and not allowing the code to compile
so that's a general rule always use Val
unless you're sure that you're going to
change the value of a variable you know
if you find that you do need to assign a
new value to a vowel you can always go
back and make it a var instead at that
point all right so I'm going to correct
that rogue line so that we saw into Jim
instead of Tim and it's also print
something will actually replace line 32
what I'll do is come down here and on
line 33 well change it to put Jim is
dollar Jim okay we'll run that code
quickly now showing my name is Tim
Boetsch akka and the Jim variable is
correctly signed to the value of james t
kirk alright so android studio is
helping to identify variables that don't
change and all uses of are actually
highlighted we can actually start by
clicking on VAR on line 5 over here and
we get the tooltip suggesting it can be
a valise you can see here variable is
never modified and can be declared
immutable using vowel but even better
though i double click it we get this
little world light bulb up here in the
left hand side and we can come down here
we can click on make variable immutable
and that changes that as you can see to
a vowel nil and obviously that warning
then disappears alright so let's do the
same for the other VARs so come down
here you're going to clear that by
double clicking it make variable
immutable same for tim's monthly salary
double click for the VAR change that to
make variable immutable we can come down
here to fruit double click you can also
make that variable immutable as you can
see and that's all the VARs now
converted to vowel in this case we can
do that because we're only assigning a
value to them once all right so let's
now have a look at some of the warnings
that are still showing in the right-hand
margin now the first one if you look
carefully looks like it's changed color
slightly it's now a suggestion whereas
before it was showing us a warning you
know suggestions aren't as important as
warnings but your code will be more
readable if you take note of them so
this one here is saying can be joined
with the Simon and by the way clicking
on one of these warnings will take you
to the line of code that's applicable
for that particular warning now we can
come over here double click it again and
we can come down and select the tool the
light bulb and we'll click on join a
Declaration and assignment and you can
see that that's pretty impressive
it's put the assignment of the Jim
variable from the end of the code and
added it to our declaration so Jim's now
initialized at the point where it's
declared and that's good programming
practice so I can do the same for Tim on
the next line just by double clicking on
it and selecting the light bulb and go
join Declaration and assignment alright
so let's look at some of the other warning
now explicit given top is redundant and
they're actually all the same at this
point forward now all these warnings are
all the same no explicit given type is
redundant here now I said that you had
to tell Kotlin what type of value each
variable is going to be given but that's
not strictly true now every variable has
to have a type and once you made it a
string say you can't go with signing a
number to it but we don't have to
explicitly tell Kotlin the type Kotlin
is very clever
and can work out the type what the type
should be most of the time now the first
warning is here on line 5 if I click on
over here where we sign a string to the
variable Jim now if we're making Jim
equal to the string then double quotes
and whatever the name of the year string
is than Jim's obviously the strings in
other words if the value is surrounded
by double quotes quite clearly that's a
string and that's what the warnings
saying here cotton can work out that Jim
is of type string so telling it that
it's a string is redundant and again
what we can do here is just double click
click on the light bulb and we can click
on remove explicit types specification
now that I've done that you can see it
just says Val Jim equals double quotes
james t kirk then another double quote
so i thought i think you'd agree that
line 5 nair was a lot easy to read
then line 6 and we've removed that
redundant type and we've actually
removed that warning as well now when
the codes compiled the Kotlin compiler
will infer the type that Jim should be
now you'll come across the term type
inference in the documentation and
that's what it means
cotton can work out what type something
is all right so I'm going to use the
light bulb now to actually remove the
remaining redundant type specifies so
I'm going to start with the next line
I'm going to double click on that I'm
going to change Tim remove explicit type
specification in the next one Tim's
weekly salary I'm gonna remove explicit
type specification next one Tim's
monthly salary remove explicit type
specification now that can also be
inferred but there's no warning but the
light bulb did appear when I clicked on
the variable where type and also appear
by the way
and you can by double-clicking on the
actual variable top that'll produce a
light bulb or make the light bulb appear
as well I can click on remove the
explicit type specification for that as
well and continuing on down here I can
click on double click on apples remove
explicit type oranges remove explicit
type fruit remove explicit type weeks
remove explicit type years remove
explicit type okay so that's basically
all the changes there now that's
actually removed all the warnings and
our code more readable without that
clutter notice now that I've done that
in the top right hand corner here
there's a green tick and that's telling
us that there's no other warnings we've
got these other things here which aren't
warnings as such so this is what you
should be aiming for in your code a
green tick to indicate that there's no
outstanding warnings or suggestions and
obviously no errors. Now it's always
worth checking out these warnings and
suggestions as they'll often help you to
write more idiomatic Kotlin code you can
ignore them but paying attention to them
and acting on them can improve your code.
Alright so I'm going to stop this video
here in the next one we're going to look
at how our code can make decisions.
See you in the next video.